API routes documentation (#7562)
zeit/next.js: packages/next/README.md

<!-- https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc -->

- [How to use](#how-to-use)

> 

Reviewer: Was this space added by `doctoc` ?

export default withRouter(MyLink)
```

> ### API routes

Reviewer: We use uppercase for starting letters in titles, this would also require an update with `doctoc`:

```suggestion
### API Routes
```

<details>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="/examples/api-routes">Basic API routes</a></li>
    <li><a href="/examples/api-routes-micro">API routes with micro</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

> API routes provides straightforward solution to build your `API` with `Next.js`. Start by creating `api` folder inside `pages` folder. Every file inside `api` folder is mapped to `/api` route. For example `api/posts.js` will be mapped to `/api/posts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API routes provides a straightforward solution to build your `API` with `Next.js`. Start by creating the `api` folder inside the `pages` folder. Every file inside `api` is mapped to `/api/*`, for example `api/posts.js` will be mapped to `/api/posts`.
```

```js

> export default (req, res) => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// pages/api/post.js
export default (req, res) => {
```

  res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json')
  res.statusCode = 200
  res.end(JSON.stringify({ name: 'Nextjs' }))
}
```

> **Note: API routes pages are compiled just for the server. So there is no overhead inside the client bundle. Every route is its own separated bundle, so there is no problem with big bundles and slow bootup.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note: API routes pages are compiled just for the server, there's no overhead added to the client bundle and every route is its own separated bundle.**
```

> #### API middlewares

Reviewer: We use uppercase for starting letters in titles, this would also require an update with `doctoc`:

```suggestion
#### API Middlewares
```

> API routes provides built in `middlewares` which parse incoming `req` event. These middlewares are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API routes provides built in `middlewares` which parse the incoming `req`. Those middlewares are:
```

> - `req.cookies` - an object containing the cookies sent by the request - default `{}` 

Reviewer: - `req.cookies`: an object containing the cookies sent by the request. Defaults to `{}`

> - `req.query` - an object containing the request's [query string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string) - default `{}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `req.query` - an object containing the [query string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string). Defaults to `{}`
```

> - `req.body` - an object containing parsed body by `content-type`, or `null` if no body is sent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `req.body`: an object containing the body parsed by `content-type`, or `null` if no body is sent
```

> #### Helper functions

Reviewer: We use uppercase for starting letters in titles, this would also require an update with `doctoc`:

```suggestion
#### Helper Functions
```

> We're providing a set of `Express.js`-like methods to improve the developer experience and increase the speed of creating a new `API` endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're providing a set of `Express.js`-like methods to improve the developer experience and increase the speed of creating new `API` endpoints.
```

```js
export default (req, res) => {
  res.status(200).json({ name: 'Nextjs' })
}
```

> - `res.status(code)` - a function to set status code send with the response where `code` must be valid [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `res.status(code)` - a function to set the status code where `code` must be a valid [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes)
```

> - `res.json(json)` - a function to send `JSON` response where `json` is the `JSON` object to send

Reviewer: - `res.json(json)` - Sends a `JSON` response where `json` must be a valid `JSON` object

> - `res.send(body)` - a function to send content where body can be a `string`, an `object` or a `Buffer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `res.send(body)` - Sends the HTTP response, `body` can be a `string`, an `object` or a `Buffer`
```

> ### Custom server and routing

Reviewer: Why is it called `Custom server and routing` ?
```suggestion
### Typescript Support
```

Author: I didn't touch this part at all 😅

Reviewer: 🤣

export default withRouter(MyLink)
```

### API Routes

<details>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="/examples/api-routes">Basic API routes</a></li>
    <li><a href="/examples/api-routes-micro">API routes with micro</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

API routes provides a straightforward solution to build your `API` with `Next.js`. Start by creating the `api` folder inside the `pages` folder. Every file inside `api` is mapped to `/api/*`, for example `api/posts.js` will be mapped to `/api/posts`. Here's how an `api` route looks like:

```js
export default (req, res) => {
  res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json')
  res.statusCode = 200
  res.end(JSON.stringify({ name: 'Nextjs' }))
}
```

> **Note: API routes pages are compiled just for the server, there's no overhead added to the client bundle and every route is its own separated bundle.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note: API routes are compiled just for the server, there's no overhead added to the client bundle and every route is its own separated bundle.**
```

export default Page
```

> For [API routes](#api-routes) types, we provide `NextApiRequest` and `NextApiResponse`, which extends normal `Node.js` request and response objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [API routes](#api-routes) types, we provide `NextApiRequest` and `NextApiResponse`, which extend the `Node.js` request and response objects.
```
